Edits to the Introduction episode (#90)
SoftDev4Research/4OSS-lesson: _episodes/01-introduction.md

- "The discussed best practices are not tailored to software developers, but rather to a wider audience"
---

> In recent years scientific research has become more data driven and data intensive and it is no longer possible to carry out the analysis without use of computers and research software. Unfortunately software is not always developed following best practices that ensure its quality and sustainability.[Four simple recommendations to encourage best practices in research software](https://f1000research.com/articles/6-876/v1)) is a publication that adresses this issue by providing a simple, yet robust framework of recommendations that encourage the adoption of existing best practices in research software development. These recommendations are designed around Open Science values, and provide practical suggestions that contribute to making research software and its source code more discoverable, reusable and transparent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In recent years, scientific research has become more data driven and data intensive and it is no longer possible to carry out the analysis without the use of computers and research software. Unfortunately, software is not always developed following best practices that ensure its quality and sustainability.[Four simple recommendations to encourage best practices in open research software](https://f1000research.com/articles/6-876/v1)) is a publication that addresses this issue by providing a simple, yet robust framework of recommendations that encourage the adoption of existing best practices in research software development. These recommendations are designed around Open Science values, and provide practical suggestions that contribute to making research software and its source code more discoverable, reusable and transparent.

These recommendations recognise that not everyone can or want to make their software open from day one, but we encourage you to learn from the recommendations and adapt them to your needs. For example, you can have a private repository, you can and should still have a license, make contributions clear, and have a registry of your software. 
```

## FAIR principles

> Though not all the recommendations from the FAIR data principles directly apply to software, there is good alignment between the practices discussed here and the FAIR data principles. The FAIR principles are a set of community-developed guidelines to ensure that data or any digital object are Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable. The FAIR principles specifically emphasize enhancing the ability of machines to automatically find and use data or any digital object, and support its reuse by individuals. Standards for the description, interoperability, citation etc. are at the core of these principles ([ref](https://www.incf.org/activities/standards-and-best-practices/what-is-fair)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though not all the recommendations from the [FAIR data principles](https://www.force11.org/group/fairgroup/fairprinciples) directly apply to software, there is a good alignment between the practices discussed here and the FAIR data principles. The FAIR principles are a set of community-developed guidelines to ensure that data or any digital object are Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable. The FAIR principles specifically emphasise enhancing the ability of machines to automatically find and use data or any digital object, and support its reuse by individuals. Standards for description, interoperability, citation etc. are at the core of these principles ([ref](https://www.incf.org/activities/standards-and-best-practices/what-is-fair)).
```

## Why best practices in research software

There are many best practices currently in place that directly aim at and are tailored for software developers. These include aspects such as test driven development and test coverage ([ref](https://github.com/r-lib/covr)), code quality ([ref](https://qaas.cyclopt.com/)), continuous integration ([ref](https://travis-ci.org)), etc. 

Most researchers who may need or want to develop software, do not have a formal software engineering training. This is why they might not be aware of good programming practices (e.g. code modularisation, testing, annotation, etc.) [Wilson et al. 2017](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1005510). 
However, good practices in research software development are key to generating good quality software and therefore reproducible research results. 

> The 4OSS recommandations provide simple guidelines to incorporate good practices in reserch software development and this lesson teaches how to adopt the 4OSS recommandations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 4OSS recommandations provide simple guidelines to incorporate good practices in research software development and this lesson teaches how to adopt the 4OSS recommendations.
```

> This lesson targets **scientists writing research software** but can also be of interest to a wider audience, particularly research funders, research institutions, journal editors, group leaders, and managers of projects producing research software. <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lesson targets **scientists writing research software** but can also be of interest to a wider audience, particularly research funders, research institutions, journal editors, group leaders, and managers of projects producing research software. 

```
